[Intro]
Yo, we gettin' fucked tonight, right?
Roll that weed up
Hahahah

[Verse 1]
Yo, you might think I got a problem ‘cause I’m always gettin’ high, don’t need to mention intervention .. I’ll recover when I die
Yo, I ain’t tryna pay attention, blowin' drugs into the sky, they say the guy’s a liability, let me show you why..
My.. shit is risky, got some vomit on my FILA, you drinkin' Palm Bay, I’m stealin' whiskey and tequila from your parents' liquor cabinet
I’m grabbin', make you havin' second thoughts but, homie, I ain’t havin' it, I’m fuckin' ravenous
Show me where the shrooms at, you ain’t gotta lie to me. Friday night anxiety is gone when I lose sobriety
Steady mean muggin', end up walkin' with a lean, but I ain’t drinkin' cough syrup I’ve been huffin' gasoline
Don’t give me [?] the kids that’s doin' whippits, these rappers say they turnin' up but all I hear is crickets
You actin' all wild but you sippin' champagne.. man, that shit is for the bitches, you don’t know a damn thing

[Chorus]
If I told you I was sober then that shit would be a lie
Yes, I'm over be retarted.. yes, I'm always fuckin' high

[Verse 2]
Yo, I'm 'bout to drink a frat of beer and I'm fuckin' out of here, pukin' on the rug and doin' drugs in your cavalier
Out in Russia tellin' people that my name is Vladimir, drinkin' vodka straight, that's explains why I'm stayin' weird
I can see you’re new to this.. who the fuck are you to diss? I been high on drugs since I was in my momma’s uterus
Gettin' pissed in Budapest, when he’s sober dude’s a mess. I ain’t tryna quit at all, this is what I do the best
Show me where the weeds at, don’t know what kind you plan to find. LSD and Pink Floyd, I’m tryin' to expand my mind
Find me on stage, shit faced in Australia, stashin' paraphernalia near my genitalia
The fact is this, I’m drinkin' juice from cactus’s, hazardous waste drippin' out my sinus passages
You actin' all wild but you sippin' champagne.. man, that shit is for the bitches, you don’t know a damn thing

[Chorus]
If I told you I was sober then that shit would be a lie
Yes, I'm over be retarted.. yes, I'm always fuckin' high