Verse 1
You say that you'll never leave and you can’t live your life without me
Reading your lips as you're telling me everything about me
That you've really grown to need, from my advice, to my silence
Always praying for me whenever you see the lights and the sirens
Begging Lord for my peace as you could see my life of violence
Now seeing you in my dreams weighing heavy on my eyelids
In all reality I see you as if you were perfect
Losing love before just made me feel I wasn’t worth it
Like maybe love and relationships really isn't meant for me
Crazy, got me explaining shit that I've been feeling mentally
I don't wanna chase anything, just wanna have what's meant to be
So if you say you love me I need to know what you meant you see
(Maybe love and relationships really isn't meant for me
Crazy, got me explaining shit that I've been feeling mentally)
I don't wanna chase anything, just wanna have what’s meant to be
So if you say you love me I need to know what you meant you see

Chorus
I say how do you love me? (how do you love me?)
Tell me how does it feel? (how does it feel?)
Or do you even love me? (do you even love me?)
Let me know if it’s real. (if it's real)

Verse 2
She said, "I know that you’ve been hurt before, I can see all your scars
And it's tearing me up inside you don't see who you truly are
Cause any person that's hurt you didn’t realize what they had
And looking back on your past like this got me feeling bad
I just wanna show you all the things I feel that you deserve
Really wish that you could see I wouldn't toss you to the curb
Love is meant to be simple but you bringing complications
Got me feeling you may not be ready for our situation
Don't know why I fell in love with you, I just feel like you're special
And feeling this got me thinking that there's a reason I met you
I follow my path of life chase everything that I'm meant to
Ideas in my head I wonder where do we head to?"

Chorus
I say how do you love me? (how do you love me?)
Tell me how does it feel? (how does it feel?)
Or do you even love me? (do you even love me?)
Let me know if it's real. (if it's real)

Verse 3
Unh, well baby girl I'm doing everything I can
Put it simple I'm just a king that has yet to conquer his land
And true, gotta admit that love is part of the plan see
I wanna raise me a prince and princess, make us a family
But I've been cautious with  partners ever since the last few
Cause what happens when that queen and empire looking past you?
So I'm set to look past all the passion that we may pass through
And when time takes its toll, there's a question that I may ask you
Like how do you love me? Tell me, how does it feel?
Or do you even fucking love me, shit let me if it's real
Sorry if I sound aggressive, but living comes with a passion
Sorry if you can't provide the answers to what I'm asking
The only reason I ask cause I pray you ain't like the last one
I seen them all line up for me and leave orderly fashion
So if my insecurities make me sound as if I don't trust you
Then understand I was curious cause I was feeling love too

Chorus
I say how do you love me? (how do you love me?)
Tell me how does it feel? (how does it feel?)
Or do you even love me? (do you even love me?)
Let me know if it's real. (if it's real)

Outro
He was feeling love, cause the feelings were mutual
The way people perceive love these days is unusual
Using affection to aleve pain or even the score
Sorry for all of the questions I just heard it all before