[Intro]
Oi, it's LR baby, it's LR boo
Pressplay Lightwork part two
Oi, free all my niggas
Biggz the Engineer baby

[Verse 1]
Ok, Pressplay Lightwork part two
Had a 'chete that bent but I made it worse
[?] I ain't gonna etch these words
Pull up on my nigga in a dinger then burst
Hold up how's- speaking?
I own up it was me that [?] him
Bare exit wounds and leakage
Had his girl looking at his wounds while grieving
Got cheffed times three just leave it
Chattin' all bad, but he knows he don't mean it
Bored down Paul, yeah he still breathing
Man try put on a show like Cleveland
Screaming [?]
Would've thought he just got some new Christians
Don't slip 'cuz [?]
That boy got severed, taught him a lesson
I just hope that he listens
Your niggas left you while you with them, bitch boys [?]
How they winnin' and rappin' and fibbin'?
They must've forgot that there's guys in cylinders
Bro's always itching to ride, I said wait till we land like Inter
[?] worse than your head can get split in two
Even if you're with them in a picture
Gyally always chatting, she was screaming when I digged her
Mad cause she heard I was chatting to her sister
[?] baby, don't fuck with this geezer
Gyally on me spread her V so I jeet her
Heard that she fuck with them yutes, so I'm finna go ku
But I might go cell if I beat her
Got a couple man in my zoot, gotta ras it now it can't get past
Naghz got got in a cab, you gotta give that driver five stars
Paul got drenched and [?] by me and gang [?]
When OS, got it, I was meant to go in that ride but a man said "Nah"
Do it and dash, got things in what?
Look at you now should've stuck to art (dead up)
All these drillings and chingings, TTP saw us then dart
If they saw us they depart
Skid one bell shot let it far
Been [?]
[?] niggas still chattin' and talk
It's like these niggas forgot
You got drenched on two occasions, on my block and one of them was in the shop
Have a man looking like Asians with the pots, have you duckin' and divin' a lot
Bro bro whip that, whip that
Yeah, Goldie your making it lock
Whip that, whip that, your making it-
They see us they gotta dash like a fraction
[?]  pack, I just bought a new package
You'll get it if you're with them you won't understand it
Trapping but all of the chat I can't stand it
So we go fishing try get us a catfish
How they be rapping like [?]
Like I swear you got bored in the sweetie shop
Wet, wet man down then jump
See us best run 'cah you will get Bow Bow
Dash when we skrring round
Psycho from young, was an Omen child
Five times inject, twisted it, pulled out
Free gang gotta flex with the food we file
Unless their on basic it's Jeremy Kyle
Had the bloody yutes face with PS it was foul
Bro made him dash and they [?]
What d'you know 'bout riding for fortnights
Open your chest like we're looking for treasure
Keep chattin' on my name its alright, like I didn't get Shh Shh etcetera
Gyallie on me on man 'cuz I ride
Like I'm in Uni give me a lecture
Chattin' my name its alright 'cuz Shh done left his shoes Cinderella
Don't ask when I slapped that lead
They're lucky I missed, shoulda left man dead
[?] rappin', what's going through his head?
Ain't done shit we got his back, belly and chest
So many man put in hospital beds
[?]  ain't on it bro it don't make sense
[?]
Do it how I done it with Snoop and Young Kweng
Rev it, Who's that? Get him
Push my buttons that's a whole lot of cheffings
[?] got caught and got left by his bredrins
Same way [?] they're still rappin' and textin'
Still riding tryna make shanks inject
Free AR, LD, PS
Loose chattin' like they really want smoke
Like Carlton you can get it free like Jeff

Biggz the Engineer baby
Biggz the Engineer baby

[Verse 2]
Once again can't tell us 'bout ridin'
All my nigga's been ridin' through
You don't wanna see us pull up on violence
So much man you won't know who's who
Who's that? Pull up in a dinger then shoot
Shoot then gyally on me throwing up two
Your friend said "Who am I", wait who are you?
LR's been riding, pull up in a dinger then fire it
Once can't tell us 'bout ridin'
All my nigga's been ridin' through
You don't wanna see us pull up on violence
So much man you won't know who's who
Who's that? Pull up in a dinger then shoot
Shoot then gyally on me throwing up two
Your friend said "Who am I", wait who are you?
Been ridin', pull up then fired it
How much times did we pull up and fire it?
How much times did we pull up and you hidin'?
When he ran and left him stretched out
Ask how much times I knifed him (Splash)
This girl can't lie it's exciting
[?] he's straight down smiling
Can't lie they're making me stressed out
The way they're rapping and lying
Shh got cheffed, that was because of me
Please don't lack if you're on me
[?] is it 'cause of me?
Dick game good so she's owning me
Shh got cheffed, that was because of me
Please don't lack if you're on me
[?] is it 'cause of me?
Dick game good so she's owning me
When I back this shank, man's tryna see Chunks
Yeah it's my best mate Yung Filly, silly
Trip, got splashed, he sunk
Feel like Sam Smith, cah it stays with me
Who's that? Jump out the whip get busy
15 inch minimum not flicky
Them man spoke tough, graveyards where they got send like fifty
Bare shirts got torn like two three
From young, bare man said I'm bookie
Man's worse, you don't know this new me
Girl lie, said from kway, how she knew me?
I ain't got a type and yes I am choosey
Had a sweet one tryna link me and that, but I couldn't
I was trapping out Claire's with LD
Caught form and they screaming out "Help me!"
You knew I was on you like selfies
So why lack and dash you disgrace me
Cause you rep on tracks your two facey
Who's that? Turn to barber get shavey
Split that wiggy, didn't have [?]
Rev that ped, like pizza let's go go
No, no I can't run to the po po
Why's that? Because my names not-
Switch it, make a man fly like Rio
Don't care if you're older, like I like BO
Free all my bros, they've been waiting on POs
I've been there before so I know how it feels
Why chat? When I'm on you like tubers
LR boo, too sick without mucus
Run up for the [?], bored no computers
Been a real bad boy-
Once again can't tell us 'bout ridin'
All my nigga's been ridin' through
You don't wanna see us pull up on violence
So much man you won't know who's who
Who's that? Pull up in a dinger then shoot
Shoot then gyally on me throwing up two
Your friend said "Who am I", wait who are you?
LR's been riding, pull up on a nigga then fire it
Wanna say a gang can't tell us 'bout ridin'
All my nigga's been ridin' through
You don't wanna see us pull up on violence
So much man you won't know who's who
Who's that? Pull up in a dinger then shoot
Shoot then gyally gon' be throwing up two
Your friend said "Who am I", wait who are you?
Been ridin', pull up then fired it

Biggz the Engineer baby