I could begin this piece with a melancholy look back at the terrible things related to music that happened in 2014, and then use a cliché comparison to all the brilliant music that’s been released, reflecting with “the year wasn’t that bad after all”, but I’m far from enthusiastic about that idea. I could also rant like I always do about end-of-year lists and how I especially chose to write this on the first day of the new year, because 2014 wasn’t done before all the big magazines and websites started publishing their top 10s. But maybe I could break the general rule of posts appearing on this blog and actually get to the point as soon as I start. This is going to be long, because I tried to make a top 10 and ended up with a top 15 and even more runner-ups just falling out. Yay!

Honorable mentions
These are albums that didn’t make the list, but still deserve a place in this post because they are great for some reason. The list is alphabetically by artist; there’s no ranking here.

Arsenal — Furu: A great, varied fifth album by the world music influenced producer duo, and their best so far. From the softer, guitar-driven “Sharp Teeth” to the memorable electronic “Black Mountain (Beautiful Love)”, Arsenal manage to keep you entertained.
BRNS — Patine: A great set of experimental, inventive Belgian indie rock tracks. Very good overall, especially the first half is quite strong. Not everything is at the same level, but they’ve managed to make it a very enjoyable effort.
Childcare ­ — Flush EP: A great set of punk-influenced indie rock songs, produced by To Kill A King’s Ben Jackson, but ultimately not an album, so not eligible for this list. It’s very promising though, I can’t wait for a proper debut album to come out.
Cloud Boat — Model of You: A very atmospheric but happier follow-up to last year’s debut. Well-crafted and variated.
Damon Albarn — Everyday Robots: The proper debut solo LP from the genius from Gorillaz and Blur. Very emotional and personal, but with some uplifting surprises. If you’re looking for action, you’ll be disappointed, but if you’re relaxing, this is perfect.
Ed Sheeran — ×: A more eclectic and variated album than the British singer-songwriter’s first studio album, and overall more enjoyable. Very realistic and raw lyrics from real life, but usually quite upbeat and even showing off some of his great rap skills.
Febueder — Lilac Lane EP: Brilliant experimental EP, but again too short to be an album and be on this list. It’s still brilliant though, in its style-blending gapless fashion.
Girls In Hawaii — Hello Strange: Awesome live rendition of stuff from their previous albums, everything is reworked with dedication to make the tracks sound great and they shine.
GoGo Penguin — v2.0: Mercury Prize-nominated neo-jazz album. Very original and inventive, but not extremely varied, although still very nice.
The Griswolds ­ — Be Impressive: Long-awaited debut album from the Australian indie pop band. Very catchy and earworm-filled, and everytime you’d think they’re just a one-trick pony they come up with something totally different.
Hozier — Hozier: Take Me to Church was amazing when it came out at the beginning of 2014, now radio has ruined it completely, but this album is Hozier at his best for the whole thing, not just the first track. From bluesrock to gospel, everything’s there.
Jungle — Jungle: A great debut for this British neo-soul collective, but it feels more like a collection of potential singles than a real album, except for the brilliant interlude “Smoking Pixels” then. Most of it is great though, I’d just wish for it to be more varied.
King Gizzard & the Lizard Wizard — I’m In Your Mind Fuzz: Starting out with a locked-groove driven 12 and a half minute long jam spread over four tracks, this doesn’t really seem like an all that exciting album on paper, but it’s very variated and twisted and that makes it great.
Magic Man — Before the Waves: Synthrock at its best, although I think this would’ve been even better had they continued the indie rock-influenced sound of “Nova Scotia”, the only EP track not on the album, but still great overall.
Pink Floyd — The Endless River: A beautiful swansong to Richard Wright, Pink Floyd making ambient turns out extremely well and this is a high note to end their career.
Rag’n’Bone Man — Wolves EP: His incredible voice combined with the great style-blending collaborative music makes this EP a must-try.
SOHN — Tremors: Not on the list because I only really started listening to this one in January 2015 (this pick was added later on), but it definitely deserves a place in there. His amazing falsetto combined with the alternative R&B electronica is really great, the only real issue is that the overall theme is quite depressing through the whole album.
To Kill A King — Exit, Pursued by a Bear EP: This has got to be one of the best EPs I’ve ever heard, it feels more like a mini-album than an EP if you get what I mean. The placement of the tracks is perfect and this feels like a cohesive journey. Already a classic.
Tom Vek — Luck: When Tom Vek is good, he’s at his best, but sometimes his lyrics seem quite cliché and unoriginal (even though that is partially due to his extremely clear voice, but the very varied and original thoughts in “The Girl You Wouldn’t Leave for Any Other Girl” don’t really deserve an award). I think this album would’ve been better if some of the tracks were instrumental, but it’s still really good. “Broke” and “Sherman (Animals in the Jungle)” are amazing.

And now, time for the real thing!
15
Kasabian — 48:13
Blending their classic swagger rock sound with electronic experimentation, this is the most innovative and memorable Kasabian record so far. Highlights include “Treat”, deluxe bonus track “Gelfling” and “Clouds”.
14
Dan Croll — Sweet Disarray
The debut album from a singer-songwriter and musicology student, Sweet Disarray is full of beautiful guitar ballads, electronic experiments and innovative songwriting. You’ve heard “From Nowhere”, also check out “Can You Hear Me”, “Wanna Know”, “Sweet Disarray” and “Nobody Knows”.
13
Cheatahs — Cheatahs
Shoegaze at its best. These guys have been around for quite a while now, but only released their debut this year and it’s awesome. You hear their experience. Check out “IV”, “Cut the Grass”, “Mission Creep” and “Loon Calls”.
12
We Were Evergreen — Towards
Produced by Charlie Andrew, who is alt-J’s regular, Towards is a sophisticated debut album from French band We Were Evergreen. Highlights are “Cargo Cult”, “Belong”, the amazing jazzy “Eighteen” and “Daughters”.
11
Thumpers — Galore
Most of this album is percussive, incredibly catchy indie pop, but although they have their signature elements, the songs are very variated, from sample-heavy (“Sound of Screams”) over epic (“Unkinder”) and emotional (“Now We Are Sixteen”) to euphoric (“Together Now”) and this is the perfect summer album, which is stupid to say at this point, but it’s soundtracked part of mine.
10
Zammuto — Anchor
Formerly from the Books and supported by Gotye, Nick Zammuto’s band’s second album is not one to overlook at all. His percussion- and synth- driven experimental music is something to get used to, but once you do that, you’ll keep enjoying it. Highlights are “Great Equator”, “Hegemony”, “Don’t Be a Tool” and “Sinker”.
9
Oscar and the Wolf — Entity
I remember seeing this band play at a local festival, when they had only released two EPs. I liked them, but the style was a little too dreamy for me to really love them. But I’ve been following the band, and as soon as Princes came out, I knew that they’d changed, but for the better. The electro-heavy indie pop sound of this debut is amazing and Max Colombie’s voice fits perfectly with it, which is hearable in highlights like “Strange Entity”, “Astriù”, “Undress”, “Nora” and “Killer You”. A great debut.
8
Foster the People — Supermodel
Foster the People’s debut was good, but not amazing. The album didn’t sound very organic or cohesive and the dance influence was sometimes a bit too much for my liking. But Supermodel’s lead single “Coming of Age” proved everyone who thought of this band as just good at one thing completely wrong, and other tracks like “Tabloid Super Junkie”, “Pseudologia Fantastica” and “Nevermind” are as different as it can be. This is Foster the People at their highest level.
7
Aphex Twin — Syro
Richard James is still the king of intelligent dance music after more than ten years of absence as Aphex Twin, his most popular alias, and that says something. Syro is his most accessible album to date, but it’s one of his best and the album takes you on a journey exclusive to James’ music. Highlights are the 2nd, 6th and last two tracks.
6
Bombay Bicycle Club — So Long, See You Tomorrow
The journeys of lead singer Jack Steadman have had a clear influence on the new Bombay Bicycle album, but it’s probably their most innovative and eclectic record yet. The experimentation on banger “Carry Me” and the lighter ballad “Home By Now” shine, as well as the slow build of the closer title track. Mercury Prize-nominated, and a must-listen.
5
The War on Drugs — Lost in the Dream
Somehow I only stumbled upon this after multiple sites named this the best album of 2014, but they have a reason to. It’s a gorgeously crafted album that somehow comes up with something new every few seconds, and it gets better with every single listen, with so much buried in the mix that you’ll hear something new everytime. Everything’s a highlight, this works best if listened to as a whole.
4
Temples — Sun Structures
An amazing debut from this energetic British psychedelic rock band. There’s a great flow through it and the songs are all different, which makes for an exceptional listen. The guitars and synths take a place up there with the vocals, and the album is full of epic solos and instrumentals. “Sand Dance”, “Sun Structures”, “A Question Isn’t Answered”, “Move With the Season” and essential B-side “Ankh” are a must-listen.
3
alt-J — This Is All Yours
An Awesome Wave won the Mercury Prize and alt-J were suddenly given quite a lot of attention, so compared to the long period in which An Awesome Wave was made, This Is All Yours was quite rushed, but it’s definitely as good. Maybe not better, but a worthy second album. If you ignore the existence of the big mistake “Left Hand Free”, this album is perfect. From the genius vocal experiment-driven “Intro” and the unexpectedly light and jazzy “Arrival In Nara” over the classic alt-J “Every Other Freckle” and inventive “Hunger of the Pine” to the beautiful “Bloodflood Pt. II”, alt-J never fail to make this enjoyable.
2
Recorders — Above the Tide
To be honest, I wasn’t even looking forward to this album. I heard Beach on the radio, the track piqued my interest and I Shazamed it, only to be left with “no match” and I had to search for it myself. Luckily I found it on the channel’s website and I added Beach to my favourites, read somewhere that their album was due for the autumn, followed them on Spotify, and then completely forgot about it. When at school on the release day, I connected to the teachers’ WiFi network (muhahahahah) and got a notification that said that Above the Tide was released, so I downloaded the thing and went walking to get lunch with the record playing, and I was amazed by how good it was. Colorimetric’s bass line blew my mind completely, as did the overall feel in the album from start to finish. For a few weeks this was literally the only thing I listened to, until alt-J’s This Is All Yours came out, then it was both. The weird thing is that after overplaying the album like I do so often, I’m still not tired of it, unlike a few other albums that were great when they came out but lost their excitingness after I kept listening to them. And that is an achievement itself. Highlights include “Wolf Drums”, “Colorimetric”, “Alone In Reykjavik”, “Dive”, “85 MPH” and everything else.
1
East India Youth — Total Strife Forever
When the Mercury Prize nominees were announced, this was one of the underdogs, as the press complained about how much small artists there were in the list. Damon Albarn and Bombay Bicycle Club were some of the only established artists in this and these small artists no one had heard of weren’t that exciting for everyone, looking for bigger names like Kasabian and Coldplay who were all not invited to the party. But is that necessarily a bad thing? No, it isn’t. Some of these could never have won, like GoGo Penguin’s aforementioned v2.0, which is a great album but not comparable to the others and for whom a Mercury Prize nomination is simply a boost for a talented artist, not really giving a chance to win. But out of the whole list of Mercury nominees, the description of this one caught my eye, and I’m quite thankful for that. William Doyle is extremely good at using loads of different styles but creating something using them that is exciting and different but still alike, and you’re not alienated when after the accessible pop of “Dripping Down” you’re presented with the acid techno track “Hinterland”, only to be taken away by the euphoric krautrock track “Heaven, How Long”, which then continues into the ambient “Total Strife Forever II”, you get the idea. This works best as a whole album, although “Heaven, How Long”, “Total Strife Forever I”, “Dripping Down”, “Song for a Granular Piano” and “Looking for Someone” stand out. Must-listen for this year, and no doubt my favourite album of 2014.

So, that wraps up my favourite albums list, what are yours? Are there any we both have or are your favourites completely different? Let me know if you want, and have a great 2015!