[Round 1: E. Farrell]
I got no-showed my last match, so I booked a battle with Dunsh
And like an X Games crowd, I'mma clap if he stunts!
I feel like if he turns to run, I'll shoot his back up a bunch
He'll be walkin' 'round like this...but that's just a hunch
I checked this Geek Squad and they the Best Buy type
Who ain't official in the field, go and test my stripes
If you on board to take off after hours like a red eye flight
I got the green light to swing like a Jedi Knight
Now of his bars, I'll take a few shots tops like slow drinkers
Still make my stamp with more bags than a dope-slinger
Got the best hype man, don't need no thinkers
You'll see my team's won (one) over the crowd like a foam finger
I said my whole set's flashy, like a rave
While you couldn't get your Peeps to blow up puttin' Easter candy in a microwave
So go and tell your mans keep it movin'
'Cause e'rybody askin' 'bout the kid like a family reunion

[Round 1: Dunsh]
Yo, so Lexx hit my phone like, "What you think about a battle wit E?"
I said, "Dope."
He said, "One thing."
I said, "What?"
He said, "He wants to go five rounds where you're just matchin' 16's."
I said, "16 bars? That's an abomination."
He said, "Yeah, whatever you do don't waste your first four recappin' this conversation."
I let a stick go in the crowd like a maestro's buggin'
I got your circle under my thumb like the iPhone button
You hear a beepin' while I'm cookin', that ain't your micro oven
That's your radar detector sensin' this 5-0 comin'
I said I'm somethin' like Joe Budden, I'm in love with hip-hop
On his fuckin' strip, thuggin' wit' a rubber-grip cocked
And I fucked his bitch, hit it 'til the rubber went pop
Sounds like I'm runnin' Tough Mudder in some fuckin' flip flops
So cut the slick talk when Dunsh's [?] aak
And when you come against Brock, you get your fuckin' shit rocked
And you gon' regret you ever battled me cause once this shit drops
I'm 'bout to hit you up and flood your inbox
Like, "Can you share this for me when you get a second, bro?"

[Round 2: E. Farrell]
Ain't no tellin' what type of ride I'mma whip next
I just know it's got a backup cam' like the hype man for Dipset
Push a button and the roof gone, my car bomber
While you broke as fuck, and always strapped for cash: that's an armed robber
So it's different types of way we say we livin' priceless
You ain't flossed once in your life: I think you might have gingivitis!
If we fight, man, I'll let a handgun fly
No remorse, I'm at court with a blank face like the AND1 guy
So it's a plan, son: if it backfire, I'mma fire back
And have your arms lookin' real stupid like a tribal tat'
Find your wifey bath while she give herself a spray tan
And have her flyin' through this giant sack with this stray hand (Strahan)
I'm tryin' to say, fam', she go for nuts like rodent food
And tells me keep my head up, which puts me in a real hopeful mood
Tryin' to give me dome, but I stopped 'cause I don't have the patience
Now I'm simply over the top, no exaggeration

[Round 2: Dunsh]
Yo, you mad cause in school you rocked jean shorts
And got cut from every team sport
While I was buff...had the highest bench in the country like the Supreme Court
I bet you always skipped leg day
While. like the X Games, I had quads for miles
And like shittin' in the woods - ha-ha - my squats were wild
[?] while you're like a Kim Jong Rocky trial, Korea bombin'
And son in long denial like a crocodile
That's why it ain't a thing to wash this pussy, I'm a problem child
Fuck around and let it ring from the hip like a pocket dial
See, I'm that cat, with so much flavor that they book me with the seasoned vets
And to be the best, you gotta beat the best, so I guess that means that...we the best
But I made this battle happen, y'all dappin' E and Lexx
When I planted that seed in their heads like Chia Pets!
Go ahead, keep talkin' like I'm not gonna spark
Finna pop up out the blue like the top of a shark
So lay low, J. Lo the way I'm droppin' this mark (Marc)
It's like an Asian food truck, a walk (wok) in the park

[Round 3: E. Farrell]
Yo, you softer than a wet diaper plus you probably pissed
So, like a public coke deal, go and get to ballin' ya fist
This clown bitch, wouldn't handle Molly on the Big Comfy Couch
And just gets a little cabbage cooked: that's Brussels sprouts
So treat this rap as a traffic jam and find another route
It's like the bottom of a river how you run your mouth
Punches make your face dark bruise (brews), it's no chuggin' stout
Connectin' like my Wi-Fi when I drive by your mother's house!
It's 'cause she payin' for the dick so I bank it
Puttin' doe on my wiener, only way I'll have that pig in a blanket
Don't feel bad, dawg, I don't like dissin' women
So tomorrow, I'll buy her a bath bomb...the ISIS edition!
Where your grandma at? She get the cannon after
I'm the type to pop a cop and sit calm (sitcom) for thinkin' Family Matters
Some gore may (gourmet) be seen when I lift treys like fancy platters
And have three caps hittin' ya dome like Chance The Rapper

[Round 3: Dunsh + E. Farrell]
You said some shit about Family Matters, and rhymed it with Chance The Rapper, and that was dope
So I guess you're in (urine) for a round of applause before I clap your bladder
That was a freestyle flip!
If y'all deny, then it's a total lie
'Cause I hate when people fuckin' write together, dawg
Bro, so do I!
But fuck the jokes, brother, cause we ain't Marlon and Damon Wayans
Plus, you wearin' out your time like you tryin' to be Flava Flav
Plus, your views just reach computer geeks
Not to be namin' names
But if you think E for everyone, you gotta be playin' games!
Which is funny, 'cause I got a whip the same color as Kirby and Peach
And a log (analog) for your bae to (beta) test like an early release
So I'm with that bitch swervin' a V, feedin' her dick, burger wit' cheese
And my wrist? Terminal, bitch: I got Rich Person Disease
You battled Dizaster in Australia and let the kid murk him with frees
I would've caught a disturbin' the peace...for givin' Diz turban the piece!
Fuck it, 14 bars already deaded this dude's flow
So I'mma use my last two just to set up this cool pose

[Round 4: E. Farrell]
It's like I'm sexist a bit, 'cause I'm disrespectin' a bitch
You got a great immune system, you ain't never been sick
Call me Young Frito Lay, I'm the best with the chips
To top it off, I'm droppin' more cheese than Mexican dips
So talk cream, I'll rub it in your face and help with your zits
Been fully gassed from the start like when you rented a whip
Plus I can tell by the way you flex in your pics
You just too pussy when it's time to bang; lesbian chicks
I'll make your block disappear, I play Tetris a bit
Plus like a pyro I keep everything lit
It's like that flamin' bag of poop prank when I empty your strip
I'm at your front door to ring your bell
Boy, you 'bout to STEP IN SOME SHIT!
[?] get his screen shot for real, see my texts (TEC's) is legit
Or see (C) K's get takin' out like when you message a Crip
I'll have you in my car by the trunk like elephant lips
Then, like your friends had better plans, you gettin' left in a ditch

[Round 4: Dunsh]
I done pushed so many eggshell whips, even hens felt pissed
But now that black performance range is like a Denzel flick
Spread shells, I'm on my Glen Bell shit
Go 'head and Wiki that, blicky clap
Diggin' through your shit like, "Pussy gimme that ."
Split his titty fat, Brooklyn, where my city at?
Mini MAC's (Macks), criss cross (Kris Kross) your chest like a Biggie tat'
He once admitted that, him and his dirty-ass boys be sharin' fitted hats
A fitting fact when you consider that, I'll fuckin' split his cap
I bet the right cross have him switchin' paths to Christian raps
Meanin' after I whoop, E's (Whoopi) takin' a religious track and this ain't Sister Act
So let him spit his raps
Bet this bitch is catchin' cricket claps
But if I clap a cricket that's the little strap from Men In Black, fiiidacts
You know what else is kinda fittin' is that
Your boy would be a bitch up prison naps, a fitness app
Wait a minute, bring it back
Bitch in prison, fitness app, that means they run a train on that cell and then he's gettin' jacks
And I just wanted 17 bars cause I don't give a crap

[Round 5: E. Farrell]
Y'all got me fucked up considerin' this business is personal
Cause Dunsh the homie and that shit simply isn't reversable
Remember when I got you that janitor job at the airport, second shift by the terminal?
Well on your first day at work I'm the one who shit in the urinal
So like a Scribble Jam judge get to call an attorney
I ain't down to return a sport shirt but got problems with Jersey
If it's beef, I'm never cooked, so you're not gonna serve me
Plus you're such a female, I bet your favorite brand of chocolate is Hershey's
Her/she? That's a bar Dunsh, while you couldn't kick an off the wall punch in a cage fight
And I still spit solid, I got rocks for mucus
Take you all to school and make you learn the hard way like honor students
Ain't no breakin' bread, I'm sick of all these bird bitches stayin' fed
I'll sleep him just for sleepin', lay in bed, spray the lead
Have a vegetable body; Mr. Potato Head
If what doesn't kill you makes you stronger
But what does kill you makes you dead!

[Round 5: Dunsh]
Yo, I said it's Farrell vs Dunsh, let's get this battle started y'all
No more wastin' time
Sorry, this was supposed to be my openin' round, but I changed my mind
You ain't never engaged in crime or seen a pistol disperse
So I'll pop your cherry with the Wesson
Get it? Treat my fifth like my first
By the time we get to that second round...ha, just kidding
We're from the same block, we used to do stick-ups and drug runs
And never brung guns, but we were thugs son, it's sad but it's true
They just assume that we were strapped with the deuce
'Cause I'd bust at the bank, spit a few gun bars and then pass it to you
He's like, "I grip the K. Picture day the way the cannon (Canon) will shoot."
And the teller's like, "Don Demarco" and just hands us the loot!
That's 'cause we're gangsters
So it ain't Reverse Live when you see that 40 spittin'
Machine gun Porky Pig-ish
'Cause when I let it bust through the drum, you know ya story finished
We'll take a 2-on-2 with any one of these corny gimmicks
I haven't run that by him yet but I'm pretty sure he's wit it
Everyone who said he'd 3-0 me, that is so not true...
'Cause I actually just got 5-0'd, so the joke's on you!